---
title: "Synonym Knowledge Enhanced Reader for Chinese Idiom Reading Comprehension"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-10-1-coling
excerpt: 'Siyu Long∗, Ran Wang∗, Kun Tao, Jiali Zeng, Xin-Yu Dai (* equal contribution)'
date: 2020-10-01
venue: 'COLING(oral)'
paperurl: 'https://aclanthology.org/2020.coling-main.329.pdf'
citation: 
---
Siyu Long∗, Ran Wang∗, Kun Tao, Jiali Zeng, Xin-Yu Dai (* equal contribution)

Machine reading comprehension (MRC) is the task that asks a machine to answer questions based
on a given context. For Chinese MRC, due to the non-literal and non-compositional semantic
characteristics, Chinese idioms pose unique challenges for machines to understand. Previous
studies tend to treat idioms separately without fully exploiting the relationship among them. In
this paper, we first define the concept of literal meaning coverage to measure the consistency
between semantics and literal meanings for Chinese idioms. With the definition, we prove that
the literal meanings of many idioms are far from their semantics, and we also verify that the synonymic relationship can mitigate this inconsistency, which would be beneficial for idiom comprehension. Furthermore, to fully utilize the synonymic relationship, we propose the synonym
knowledge enhanced reader. Specifically, for each idiom, we first construct a synonym graph
according to the annotations from a high-quality synonym dictionary or the cosine similarity between the pre-trained idiom embeddings and then incorporate the graph attention network and
gate mechanism to encode the graph. Experimental results on ChID, a large-scale Chinese idiom
reading comprehension dataset, show that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance.

Download [here](https://aclanthology.org/2020.coling-main.329.pdf)
